**Zoe Hendershot & Ivey Mistele**

#### Data Source Overview:

We worked with the GitHub Events Archive, focusing on live events from 10 major repositories (torvalds/linux, microsoft/vscode, facebook/react, pytorch/pytorch, kubernetes/kubernetes, vercel/next.js, flutter/flutter, apache/spark, ansible/ansible, godotengine/godot), including all forks. We selected these repositories to ensure diversity in project types, organizations, and activity patterns, allowing for a holistic representation of GitHub events. We accessed these through the GitHub REST API and stored them in Parquet format in an S3 bucket within a DuckDB database. 

#### Challenges:

Because Github events accumulate quickly for popular repositories, we had to implement a record limit and use time.sleep() between API calls to slow the requests down and manage memory. Additionally, in the same flow, we added checks for 403 responses and X-RateLimit-Reset headers, so that execution would be automatically paused and retried up to 3 times if GitHub’s rate limits blocked requests. We also initially faced difficulties with gaining the correct permission to write to S3. To fix this we had to adjust bucket settings by disabling “block all public access” before exporting the flow. Lastly, the free Shiny deployment does not connect to remote S3 buckets, so we developed the dashboard to work locally with S3-backed DuckDB queries. This was a paywall issue we could not bypass. We used a variety of methods and tools for our data pipeline. For data ingestion and processing we used python to write our scripts, Prefect for flow orchestration, DuckDB for storage and querying, and AWS S3 to store the Parquet exports. For the visualizations we used Shiny and Plotly to produce interactive dashboards. In part due to the relatively short runtime window, our project mainly revealed insights relating to Microsoft and Linux repositories. In the future, including a wider spread of repositories would give better insights onto collective Github activity. 

#### Brief Analysis:

The most common events were WatchEvent and IssuesEvent by far, while CreateEvent had one of the lowest counts. This shows that users were primarily viewing projects and opening issues, and that there were relatively few new branches or repository creations during our collection window of ~3 days. Microsoft and Torvalds (Linux) produced the highest volume of events. This reflects their large contributor bases and global user engagement, which would naturally have more views, and generate more issues, comments, and forks (a few other significant events in the dataset). Additionally, while many organizations we pulled data from showed minimal activity, many Linux forks surfaced in the data, showing how widely cloned and explored the Linux ecosystem is. Over the course of ~3 days of data collection, event activity was mostly steady with less than 250 events per minute on average, but there were also two sharp spikes, where events surged to nearly 5K and 2K events within a minute. These peaks likely correspond to coordinated activity within repositories due to bug reports or project updates/releases. However, they can also signal global time-zone overlap windows, where there are more active users from different parts of the world.


